But I remember we were scrambling for books
publishing some things that we wouldn't
otherwise
publish.
Let me ask one question. We
published Times Distractions, which was a play in
the time of Philip II, Charles II, by one of our
English department faculty members. And it's the
last book that anybody would be expecting to see in
the Texas A&M University Press, but we needed it to
fill out our list of things that she wanted us to
publish. And there were a couple of others like
that. Little far afield from what Frank wanted the
press to focus on. And didn't fit in any of the
series.
And his focus was to publish in those series and
keep those revolving films active. And not
publish much outside of those series. Those
deals carried the most of the capital of the public
interest. He had told me when I came here, when I was
interviewed, I think it was in June at my first
meeting, he told me that he wanted to keep the press
small. He wanted to keep it at about the same
publishing range as it started 15 or 16 days ago.
and I know that you wanted to publish in
those series. Well, let me stop right here and ask
something about the series. From your own
perspective, over time, years ago, have those
series been a truly effective vehicle for press
development? Or have they been complying with
you? Well,
they have
been combining to some extent. I would say that
they really are an asset to have those kinds of
funds available. Some of those funds are really
for our revenue. We've obviously made good
publishing decisions and those that return a lot
more to the funds than they cost. So we're really in
a good position now to do a lot of publishing. But
the drawback is that those revolving funds are not
like subsidies. The
money has to go back
into the funds to keep them in the office so that we
can publish more books. So we still have to make
good choices. We can't just publish anything that
comes in. Which is, that's a good point. That's a
good history. But, um, so
we treat
those funds as
short-term loans. We look at it that way, and the
funds will . Now, the restricting part is that the
funds won't cover certain areas of publication.
The Moody series covers natural history funds,
the Moore series covers art books, and so on. And
so, when we come along with a series on the
environmental history cities that we've
accomplished, and it's not funded, we have to
treat those things as most universities and
places have to do all of the enhancements. We have
to be very cost-conscious and be very economical
about how we fund those things and the returns that
we can expect from those things. And we're very
realistic about that. because
we don't have that short-term loan at this point in
the cash flow. And we spend a lot of money on those
that are not financed from new funds in a
particular season. And we don't get returns on
those goods when we're not running the cash flow.
And that probably is more than what I'm doing with
the press, but even on business. And we have, over
the years, we have run into problems, serious
problems of how we're going to pay for the next
season's list before we start making money on it.
And the problem is we've got a plan for two years and
a half on it. Mm-hm, mm-hm. I mean, How do you feel
that the A&M Press interacted with, or
interrelated with, or received by the Texas
A&M University faculty? The
faculty that I worked with in those early days, the
faculty members were mostly authors. They were
authors for a long time, whose books I was working
with. And they were all very enthusiastic about
it. As I said, people whose books we wouldn't
normally have published, that
we did publish because we needed to build our list.
And those are also books that might have had some
difficulty finding a publisher elsewhere. One
reason I still come under what the relationship of
repressed is to a faculty member is really hard to
define. It is, and it varies a lot. It varies a lot,
and I'm not sure that the faculty really are fully
aware or fully appreciative of repressed. Well,
it's always been the case, and I'm sure you will.
The other presses were awkward, both at home in
Illinois and other presses whose editors they
talked to. But a lot of professors feel that to step
down and publish with
their own university news press because that is an
easy way to get your book published. Although,
generally, the opposite is the case. We try to get
reviews from outside the university when we are
judging. in
particular faculty members for food. And so we'll
try to find critical reviews from outside the
university, and those people will be more
judgmental than some of the faculty members. I
mean, I also thought that maybe the faculty
advisory committee had as
much value in communicating the mission and
activities of the faculty as it does in providing a
human view. Well, I think the faculty committee
here, I think it's important to point that out.
Frank set up this
committee in kind of reaction to the way that this
committee had worked at the University of Texas.
That's why I picked up on that. That's important.
And having a group, a large group, in which
interested members can be selected and have
a particular meeting is the way he set it up from the
start. And he did that so that he could get people
who were really interested in
what they could contribute to a particular area.
I'm going to try to do a good thing with the Academy
Advisory Committee and then later with the
Advisory Council. Right. I
think Frank was involved in starting that up.
Yeah. In fact, I'm wondering, would that Frank,
again, set these things up? Because he was doing
this already, but we had the institutional ones. I
mean,
in fact, that first letter you wrote in September
of the third, you know, I gave him this
conservative
applause. Okay, let's kind of summarize this
stuff. So, those early years, really great
sensations, I think the most
important
thought about it is that Frank,
given his tremendous experience in business,
knew exactly what he wanted to do with the press. He
set it up that way. He got the cooperation with the
administration, with all the students, and with
everyone else. He set it up. And of course, they
respected his opinion. And so there really was His
idea of wave pressure,
he said, is real. This man obviously knows what
he's talking about. Yeah, in several areas, you
know, you start with the water, you go into the
water, you park wires. However, one more way,
that's what we do. And
so he set it up. He wanted it to be a full-blown press
from the start. And it was small. Our first
season, we published eight books. And we
continued that for the next five years. Five or six
years. And... That was his intention. He went
into it without any chance, and he carried it out.
Were you surprised at him when he got ready to
announce his retirement, or this was all part of
the... No, we knew. He told me in our interview that
he was going to retire in a few years. We hated to see
it happen. He had asked me to stay at the Press in his
mind, and I promised him that I would. So that was
1980. So he had retired before my commitment to the
Press was really over. Now, who comes in at Don
Collins' times? About the same time you were
there? No, Don started earlier in the summer. Oh,
okay. I met Don the first time at that meeting in
Indiana on June. Oh, okay. And I think Don was
already working there. What was his background?
Well, he had worked for Frank at UT Press. He had
worked in the business office there. He had
worked for Don Barrow and his divisions in the
country for quite a bit of time. When Lloyd comes,
as you know, he was a citizen of the black military.
He was high in my opinion. You know, he would ripple
with vaccine. change
in reception, operations? No, there wasn't any
change in operations. So Margaret and I were
really surprised by the first choice. I don't know
how much more knowledge Margaret had with that
security. But
I had no idea that Frank was going to go on OSU Press.
I had heard of him, but I can't get that out of the
business. He just started OSU Press a year before,
after being out of the business for several years.
And he surprised me. I think the reason that Frank
did a lot of
things, and the recommendation of the former
director of California came back this way. Who was
at LSU at that time? Les Billabong. Billabong,
sure. He's still there. Yeah, sure. But Lloyd was
editor-in-chief at LSU. that you've got a foreign
recommendation Well, he
had worked in California. He was doing an agent
assistant there. Now, I'm going to ask the Lord to
take it away, but do you think Lloyd, when he came
here, he was there? Yes. Okay. That may be obvious.
That was very obvious. That was it. And I always got
the impression that made Lloyd feel very
uncomfortable, because he said many times, when
he was here, he was never... Well,
that's
one of
the things I wanted to say. I
guess
I never got around to saying it, but it was really,
in a way, I don't know exactly how the word goes, but
I'll just be straightforward. In a way, I somewhat
regretted having taken this job, because after I
got here, I found out that Frank did everything
himself. and she
didn't delegate much to the campaign guys, which
is what we agreed with her to do. We probably didn't
get as much experience in management and
acquisitions as we could if we'd been working
somewhere else. We'd given us a little more
responsibility. But Frank was just so familiar
with the work and the people involved that if he
wanted to track down and make a script to pick up the
phone and call him and leave him with some good
news. And he wouldn't say, no, James is going to
follow suit when we get that project. He'd do it
himself. He did a lot of that. He was very
self-reliant. And that's very important, very
useful. He would share information. Sure. It was
just his way of information. It was informative.
He was not just letting us know what to expect,
rather than asking us to fix it. Good. That's very
important. So that was just his way of working.
Isn't it? As this thing developed, and including
this guy, how can you leave everybody to keep
everything real, traveling before it comes to the
end of the world, instead of you and everybody
else? Well,
it was quite a transition for
me
because
Um,
so the bullet started in, what was it, fall of 79?
Yeah, six months before the fire. 78. 78. 78,
that's right. Yeah. And, uh, then the fire hit and
that, uh, That
fire made quite a difference in our health
operation. We were having to work in the warehouse
for a while, and then we moved into the trailers.
Immediately after the fire, we were trying to
salvage as many of our files as we could.
Fortunately, we didn't lose a lot of our
manuscripts.
And I think the fire took some of the
head out of Lois. They pulled right out.
If, if over 10, you was talking, um, you know,
around the end of
the 99. I thought I had done that. And, uh, set some
things aside and, uh, get here at the top. Yeah, we
had been out of town past two weeks. Oh, I know.
Father,
what I'm going to do, I'm going to let you rest for a
little while, but I'm going to come back to you in
the morning and look at the process. Well, I can
probably take that stuff off. It's yours. One
more. In
those
years, the fire, The building, of course, is at our
office. I think the advisory
council is coming over to fill in the seals. And
then, you know, I can use that. It's not very true.
The one longer term in this building,
It
was very fun. They had a party, and we'd see his
barbecue, and we had a lot of fun. As I say, I think
there was a time or two there that he was still in
attendance, and I was probably still in the
hospital field in transition. Was
the Press having any other, I guess we're not
following this anymore, involvement with or
other administrations between at this
particular, you know, study, late 70s, you know,
and I think I'm thinking of Frank Cooper and people
like that. Do you think there were any emotions
there at all? I don't know why I picked up on that,
but there was something. There was, I think,
Frank. that
Lloyd had really liked Frank Hubert's music.
Frank was a supportive interest at the time that we
were in the trailers. And after about two years in
the trailers, Lloyd went to Frank Hubert. and
building, how much did both of you have to do? And
was Frank Hubert, who then decided, we're going to
set aside some money to build a new press building,
just for the press, and we're going to build a new
office. Who then actually got things started with
your building? That's where, not only was I going
to have the letters, but then I picked up a letter
from the office. I'm not
sure I'm going to interview you. I know
I've talked
to him
just a couple of years ago. I had learned that from
our sales, and I spoke to him, and we talked a little
bit about his influence in getting the building,
and I think he's secretly proud of what he did, and
he should be. He really supported the class and
kept us going through a really tough time. And
another thing that he did was he supported my
doing. a
second appropriation to the university. Frank
had, I think Frank had received $200,000 from the
university, and when we started out, that was the
seed money for the Capitol, that we used outside of
the funded series. And Lloyd, lloyd
did the same thing after hubert was the person who
was responsible for that and i don't i don't know
i'm sure he stood up before before to
represent the medicine and other information
that you already have. Okay, very nice to meet you.
I'm going to turn the light on. This became a thing,
though. Subvention, of course, or appropriation
of things. That is present.
What,
you know, when Lloyd comes in as the director, does
your role change, my role at first, of course,
because Margaret is still the manager, and
Margaret, again, is the manager. They'll
have us in February of any time. Actually, I
started March 1st. And of course, I began to work
directly with the board. I was pretty close. We
were good. Well, we were good, yeah. We did. The
board, there are a lot of acquisitions, a lot more
than other directors of other places. But I also,
you know, they were just the two of us. And of course
in 81, late 81 and early 82,
we started drawing the list. I think it was Boyd's
intent to double the size of the list and draw up
about 30 books a year, which we did. Again,
I did cause some cash flow problems, and I played
back to the second appropriation, and the person
who helped us out was Holmes, who helped us handle a
lot of their problems.
Because
we were publishing a lot of things that were not
covered by the public series. It was hard to
increase the list, double the list, and wrap it.
But I think we had reached a stage that You either
had
Tim Rowe, or Toole, or Stackman, or Frank
Willoughby, or the irrespective Frank's wish to
keep press small and compact. Was it a matter of
public relations, or was it a matter of just
dollars? Was it liable to the military? The reason
of the abandonment? I think it was both. He wanted
the status of the larger press. He wanted the
recognition. That's right. The school was
growing. I think it was about 27 months. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. all
my friends
in high school and my mother in high school.
But we jumped the size of the list, and I think that
was a very important stage, and probably one of the
most important things that we did was taking a
chance Any
difference
in erection? I don't know if you were doing the fat
cartilages here. No, it stayed pretty much the
same as far as the content. Okay. I
can't think of anything then that was made. When
did the distribution system, where did that come
from? Oh, that came later. It was in 1983 or 84 when
we started publishing. We started an arrangement
with the Federal Reserve and the Texas State
Department of Well, I think Ron Paul
is responsible for that idea. He thought that
would be a good way to supplement our income. And
Rice and PSHA wanted that kind of bill. So
it seemed mutually beneficial, and we suggested
that people, since we had this new warehouse, it
was feasible for us to have this. We had the storage
space there, too. And we put that warehouse under
use. And then we added TCU, and this, and this.
I
don't know if we added TCU. I don't know what you're
going after. Just keep breaking into the
stowaway.